uh alarms any warnings any threats any telephone calls yeah we had a certain number of those all through the years you know during final week you know you'd get your fire alarms and and you'd also get bomb threats and you'd get all sorts of things over the telephone oh over the telephone and then you'd have to evacuate the building and all all of that and stand outside in the heat or the rain or something but but you know you'd have uh
you'd have alarms and sometimes you just have a short out someplace and you'd have every all alarms go off and you'd have to leave you know that happened but no we did have our share of that and you know and as i i was quoted out of context one of bob's colleagues was i think head of the geology department now um i
I really find this amusing because all of the streaking, all of this stuff that goes on in the library seems to always happen in the spring.
And I was quoted in the battalion as saying, well, yes, it just happens every spring.
And out of context, it sounds like, boy, what's this woman like?
And for you, when the streaking did occur, you library professionals, what did you all do?
Well, of course, we just, I can't, I don't think I was ever actually on duty when there was, but, you know, you always heard about it, and you called, you called the security, is what you did immediately.
But you all did not attempt to apprehend them?
No, no, no, no, no, nobody would ever have done that, no, no.
And the streakers never did any damage to the,
As far as I know, no, they just caused a commotion.
And they probably did it just on a dare.
Somebody probably, they were having a party someplace and said, I dare you to do this.
And so I think that's probably just what happened there.
They're just, I don't think there were, I really doubt, seriously doubt if they're the only one that had, I mentioned the toe biter.
He was the only one I think had a really serious problem.
The other ones were just pranks.
Now, I don't know about how it's been lately in the last few years, but it could happen.
Now, I have heard many stories from corps members about good bull, meaning pranks on each other.
By and large, that didn't occur in the library.
No, it wouldn't have happened in the library.
That's right.
I don't think so.
I doubt that.
Like, typist, this is another editorial note.
Sterling Evans, what led him to be so library concerned, what led him to be so interested in the library.
His voice broke a little with emotion when he said that when he got here as a 17-year-old freshman in 1917 that Tommy Mayo, a member of the English Department who was then the
library director made the library such a pleasant place for a scared country boy to come and study that from then on he always was concerned about the library.
Did you and your colleagues feel that you all were at the heart, the intellectual heart of the university?
Well, I really think you are, whether it's maybe, I don't know if I put it in just those terms, but you have to have, you just have to have the library facility.
Now, the libraries have gone through,
such tremendous changes through the years.
Not just this one, but all university libraries, all public libraries, all of the libraries seen has developed.
And, you know, I think sometimes the very esoteric librarians
in academe seem to forget that we're here to serve a public, not just to find the answer to a question.
I mean, you do that.
But they seem to forget that you have who or whom your constituencies are.
And we know, I hope that I have always known and I've always treated a student with the same degree of courtesy that I would treat a faculty member.
I mean, I hope I have been like that.
As you went to national professional meetings, did you get the impression that A&M, what was happening here, was happening most other places also?
Oh, I think so.
It was during the time when we had all this proliferation of
of scientific journals whether they were social sciences or science or you know this was a time when and everybody didn't know really what to do with them now they're they're coming to grips with some of these problems but that we all had this
And, you know, people, microfilm turned out not to be the end-all, be-all for everything.
But as I said earlier, you have to do something with the amount of material that you have.
You can't keep building these large buildings to store.
I mean, right now, this new facility is wonderful.
I told the powers that be the other day when I was over here for a friends meeting, I felt like Mrs. Rip Van Winkle.
I really did.
It's just incredible.
And that lovely, lovely area down on the first floor.
I know it's brand new and it hasn't been trashed yet.
And it doesn't look like anybody had even kicked the...
in the end of a table or anything.
It just looks lovely.
And here again, I was struck by how quiet it was.
This never happened.
Before, you'd come in the door, and there was always noise here.
There was always noise in circulation.
Now, that's all quiet again.
And that's kind of interesting.
Now, maybe on the other floors, it isn't quite as quiet as it was downstairs.
But I was impressed with that when I walked in today.
Now, did funding seem to get better for the library comparatively in the, was it the 80s?
I don't think it really got better until the 80s when the computer scene kept, you know, we had to get it better.
But in the meantime, you had to build your collections.
You just couldn't put it into all of the bells and whistles of the computer age.
And there's a new system here now.
Well, we remember when we got that first online system.
This was the state of the art.
I don't want to go back over all that.
But anyway, this has to change.
When the needs of people change, and with the
the technological development of all the different kinds of systems that they have and the internet.
My, this is a whole different world than when we came those many years ago.
It's entirely different.
We used to talk with our, well, we used to correspond by memo.
Now you wouldn't think of doing that.
On any level, you correspond by email.
I'm about ready, I think, to summarize.
Are there any topics that we have not mentioned that we should have?
I want to mention one person who was a science reference librarian who really, I felt at one point, saved our reference department from just almost falling to pieces.
We'd had several bad scenes there.
Her name was Julia Rolls.
R-H-O-L-E-S. She and her husband were divorced.
Her husband was in the psychology department.
But she was a wonderful person.
She wanted us to really give input into what was here, what was wrong, what was going on.
And I don't think people really believed her.
To this day, I don't think the classified staff, they're so used to having somebody tell them what to do and do it now or up and out.
But you see, she really wanted their input on how to do things.
And she was serious.
And she's gone on to a good job.
I think she's at Chicago Circle, University of Chicago, downtown, whatever.
Anyway, University of Illinois, Chicago Circle, I think that's what it is.
Anyway, that is an important where she is now.
But she was a wonderful person to know.
And she was having a very, very difficult time in her own private life when she was having to tackle some of the very difficult problems that we had here.
At some point in time, Dr. Hoadley wanted to
Now, of course, it is this way.
The documents are meshed with the science and the social sciences.
Each has been divided up as appropriately as you could do that.
But at some particular time, the library director thought that we should meld documents with
one of the with with the with the reference with reference well it just it just wasn't it wasn't the time to do it it wasn't going to work and everyone was very upset very very upset and so as i said i i will always be grateful to julia rolls for holding us together
and trusting us enough to think that you know we could a lot of this a lot of this I missed because I was upstairs in documents and of course we were all expecting well we did we came back from documents into reference and but it but it never was going to meld until we had somebody who we had this first of all we had to have the space to do it there was no way we could have ever done any anything without the space we were all we would always be
pot boiling, figuring out how we were going to put this there and this there.
We never could move anything.
And, of course, it's probably, looking back, that's probably good.
Now that this major, these major moves have been made, well, then they can work on another 20, 30 years down the road.
I can see that happening.
And who knows what they're going to be like, what libraries will be like 20 or maybe even 10 years from now.
I don't know.
In your, in all of your years here, what were the most difficult tasks that you had and the most pleasant tasks that you had?
Difficult tasks?
I had some very difficult people to,
Well, you know, to supervise.
Supervision, you know, this big institution has a lot of different people.
I have, I found that, I like supervision, but I find I had to, I probably am too easygoing a person, I won't say nice, but I just am too,
kind-hearted to make some of the decisions that I might have had to make, even though I should probably have made them.
Well, I made them, but that wasn't exactly my thing.
As I said very early on, I made a much better Indian behind the scenes doing what I should do than the chief.
I wasn't cut out to be a chief.
Right, and then the most pleasant, the most enjoyable.
The most pleasant, well I have always enjoyed, I just enjoy working with people.
I'm a people, they say, people person.
I really enjoyed it and I enjoyed all aspects of that, even the difficult ones I enjoyed.
Of those, all those years, what were your proudest moments?
Well, I did get an award, a faculty achievement award.
And yeah, I don't know if we got, no, we didn't get watches, but we got something anyway over here.
I think we got a check rather than a watch.
I think we had money that we put in the bank.
But that was very nice.
Kathy Jackson got the first one, and I think I got the second one.
How did you learn you had won?
Well, I think that somebody did tell me that I was going to win it, and I was really shocked, to be honest.
It's very appropriate that they should recognize their staff, and they should.
And I think that's a, I mean, maybe the, yeah, well, anyway, it was very,
I have the feeling that in some ways it's a much more complicated organization than it was.
But in some ways it's become a lot more impersonal.
It would have to with the size and the way it's grown.
But it's still, in spite of everything, it's still Aggieland.
And we wouldn't want it to be any different.
It's still Aggieland.
Now, is there something that you think is distinctive about the Texas A&M Library and the way it does its task?
Since I worked here for so many years, I can't be the judge.
I mean, I know it's totally different from the public library situation.
But I think that most academic libraries have pretty much the same kinds of problems and they just have to,
those leaders of those directors are, and of course they're now, let's see, Dr. Heath is also, he's not, what is his title?
It's not just Dean.
Dean.
Dean, that's what I was thinking.
Dean and director.
Well, that I think helps him with his colleagues in the administration to kind of keep things going.
Irene, although she didn't probably, I think she was at a disadvantage in some ways that she wasn't a dean.
But I think there were enough people who disliked her so much that she would never have become a dean under any circumstances.
And as things turned out, well, she came back after her tenure here.
And I think she did, Sterling Evans created a spot for her, you know, a professorship here.
And I think she did do that and she was working with the National Library Association a whole lot.
But I don't, but anyway, it was, we lived, the last few years I was here were some, you know, before Fred came were some very, very difficult years here.
And as I said, the whole fabric was about to just go apart.
Well, it didn't.
It kept together and I attribute a lot of that to the, to a lot of common sense on
of the people who were here at that time.
Looking back over all these years, to whom do you feel most grateful?
Well, I am grateful to a lot of people here, really, really.
I really feel, well, for one thing, I'm grateful that I know so many faculty, and still do, in the social sciences and humanities.
I'm still glad to know all of you, and I still
You know, you get, if you work in an organization like this, you get to, some of the staff you get so attached to, they're just like family to you.
Because you have to, you have, my son who is now in an administrative position in a firm in Fort Collins, an environmental firm, hears all these sob stories and he really doesn't really enjoy that.
I said, well, listen, grow up, fella.
the name of the game.
You're going to be an administrator or a supervisor.
You're going to hear some interesting, interesting things.
It's all part of it.
Closest professional friends for you?
Well, closest professional friends.
Actually, we didn't have, you know, I mean, we had friends.
Well, I love Sandra Conturbia.
She's in documents.
She was a good friend.
All of the faculty, some of the faculty, you would want to keep their distance.
Good friends, Mel Dodd was a good friend.
And Hal Hall was a good friend.
And we didn't know them well.
I didn't know them socially or anything like that.
But I did know them here.
And you could always depend on these people.
Katherine Jackson, Dr. Jackson, the very controversial Dr. Jackson, was always a good friend to those people who were loyal to her.
And as I say, I have such conflicting emotions.
I can see what happened to her was just the time that it was.
And you have to be concerned with harassment.
You have to be concerned with all of this.
You have to be very careful how you deal with minorities.
You have to be very careful how you deal with people.
It's not the way it was in the olden days that you could knock heads together.
You can't do that anymore.
That isn't going to work.
And so as I say, Dr. Jackson, Kathy, I consider her a friend too.
Evelyn King was a friend.
They're good friends.
But I don't see them very often.
What other topics have we not covered?
Well, we've done a- I've only got two more questions I can think of.
Have I not answered one of your questions very well?
No, no, this is fine.
I'm just trying to think because there are things that you see I wouldn't know to ask about and that's why I'm trying to be very general.
All right, then the last two questions I can think of is if someone gave you a million dollar check with one requirement that you had to pass it on to Texas A&M, what would you want that check used for?
Well, if it were going to be for the library, I could definitely want to do something over in Don's bailiwick in the archives.
And because, you know, I'm so impressed with what he's done over there in the last few years.
And I would also want to do something for the classified staff
well, probably public services, since I was in public services.
And it's kind of like this question, when I win the lottery kind of thing.
But that's about right, and I would certainly want to do something for, I think, the student scholarships.
Bob and I are very interested in trying to give back some.
He has given some back in geology.
And I have given back to my college.
And what we have, if there's some over, we definitely feel that we want to give back to the community.
And of course, as I said, I was the most reluctant of dragons when I came down here kicking and screaming.
who had moved from Denver, Colorado to Bryan College Station, Texas.
I thought she was going to live here more than she absolutely have to.
Ho, ho, ho.
Here I am.
I'm in total agreement with you, because I felt the same way.
Then the last question I can think of is, what are your feelings?
Oh, no.
Next to last.
Looking at the library as you now view it,
How would you describe, is it making progress?
Is it moving forward?
Well, I mean, as I said a few minutes ago, you know, I just felt like I was Mrs. Whipp Van Winkle when I saw everything back in place.
See, I've been visiting back here from time to time and would visit when they were all moved over here before they redid this building.
And so I've been coming back maybe once a year anyway.
I came back one time when Jane Dodd retired.
She was out of the university.
She used to be in reference.
She used to be in the business librarian.
And then she left to get her CPA.
And then she worked.
She worked for some firm in town.
Then the director, this is one good thing that Irene at least had the foresight to do, is to get Jane back here to be the business librarian.
because she had the knowledge, she had the wherewithal.
Unfortunately, she had to retire early because she had a serious health problem.
I think she was diabetic.
And the stress of that job, I think, was just a little bit more than she could handle.
And recently, I've just learned that they're moving back up to Missouri.
I think they've already left.
I'm sure they have.
Then the last question I have is what feelings do you hold in your heart for Texas A&M?
Oh, well, very strong feelings, yeah.
This is where we are.
This is where we live.
Very good feelings.